We are gonna pull into possibly,
the challenge mode now.
Are you ready?
Ready for the challenge mode?
And it's like, I know that we're feeling
a little high confidence after getting two
out of three colors.
We'll play around with that.
So in our kit, we have an LCD screen.
This is an LCD screen.
As you can see,
there are a lot of pieces here, right, but
let's kinda talk through it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It is not as bad as it seems, right?
Yeah, you don't look
confident when I say that.
[LAUGH] Right, let's talk through it.
We've got the black and
the red going to the two power rail,
the two rails, okay, great, killing it.
This is just a potentiometer, right?
We've done that before, all right, cool.
And that's just going to
adjust the screen brightness.
Theoretically, if one wanted to,
they could just go to one of
these analog circuits and
then try to control the brightness
via code, that is totally an option.
In this case, I chose to do it
with a potentiometer, all right?
As well as effectively,
the screen brightness.
Over here, we've got screen brightness and
the potentiometer, right?
So we've got three of
the wires already set for us.
We've got, if you look, we've got seven.
We're going one to the ground, eight, and
then really, it's just four in a row,
going to four in a row, and then power and
ground for the LCD itself, right?
So we've got the ability to kind of adjust
the colors, adjust the brightness rather,
as well as program in the data itself.
So really it's, if we think about it,
the potentiometer, then brightness
controls the four kind of resetting
the various characters, more power.
So it does feel like a lot of wires and
we'll take it very slowly.
But I guess take a second,
get that one out.
I'm gonna kind of pull everything out or
you will.
As you can see, you will need most of
the room on your breadboard, right,
at this moment.
So kind of take a second, we'll get
ready for that and we'll wire it up and
we'll see some things we can
play around with there as well.
All right, friends, so we did skip the
live wiring on that one for a few reasons.
One, it takes a while, and two,
I need to keep some amount of my pride.
Two, most of us gave up on
the color coding at some point.
Did anyone fully stick with
ground is dark colors?
Yeah, at a certain point, we went with,
what wires do we have and
what do we have in place?
I have a second one here to show you
that there are labels on the pins.
When we look at some of the Johnny-Five
code, you'll see that label.
You can also see them on top, but
I kind of just have a second one
here kind of ready to go as well.
And so I've just sent a quick sketch here,
which will kind of write together in
a moment to show basically, for me before
we went live to to make sure that it still
works, cuz that would
have been embarrassing.
So we've got that kind of in place.
There are a lot of pins that
control the two rows, but
it is kind of the first time that we can.
Previously, every time we have
seen any data from our Arduino,
it has been on our browser.
So again, to show this kinda two-way
connection here, we now have
the ability to show some amount of
information on our board itself, right?
Again, I would go with the diagram.
I know it is a little stressful, but
you can get there versus trying to
stare directly at this because
there's a lot to look at on here.
But we will look at it to see
the niceties of all of our
hard work of slowly
wiring this all together.
With that, the Johnny-Five piece is at
least that is very straightforward.
And I think you can do some
really interesting stuff here.
So for instance, like most things,
it is a great abstraction library
that kind of keeps the detail.
I mean, Arduino is already a great
abstraction library over this.
Right, and then obviously, Firmata
then brings it over to JavaScript, and
then Johnny-Five puts another
abstraction layer on top of that.
So we can go ahead and
instantiate our board.
And like almost everything else,
it's kind of just instantiating
a different object off of Johnny-Five.
In this case, we give it a little bit
of information, which is the pins.
And the pins, if we look at the docks line
up to different pins on the board, right?
And so they are effectively,
if you squint, and
I have a neck cramp right now
from looking very closely.
A pro tip that I forgot to throw on
the slides, I might toss in the slide for
those watching later, is you take
your iPhone or your Android phone,
it doesn't matter,
whatever phone makes you happy.
You've take a photograph of
the little labels on those pins.
And then you zoom it [LAUGH]
right up real big, otherwise,
you will go insane like I almost went.
But the array here lines up to these
pins and what they have in the case.
And so, we just went with
the standard diagram in this case.
That's why we took off
literally everything else.
So in this case, let's see what is,
I went with the standard set,
which is the 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, so let's grab that.
Not the bespoke wiring
diagram that I did earlier.
Neat, so we've got that.
And then you just have to give
it a little more information.
In this case, how many rows does it have?
We don't need to look that up.
And I believe columns, I think there's 16.
16 looks right, cool.
And so we've given us some information
about what it has to work with.
Let's inject that lcd into the repl
when we run it, I love it.
But let's also say lcd.cursor,
don't cheat.
Lcd.cursor will start at, this is row 0,
row 1 for those of us who are humans.
0, 0, so we can put the cursor somewhere
along there, and we can print.
I'm just gonna print hello,
and you can see this.
I'm gonna print something else that's
not currently on when I was just making
sure it worked.
Goodbye, seems dark, howdy.
And then we'll actually say lcd.cursor,
and let's actually push it off of 3.
Actually no, second row, 3 in,
and we'll say world, right?
And we'll try to push
this off to the board.
>> It's not 4 in?
>> Hm?
>> The 0, 0, is it zero indexed or?
>> Zero indexed, yep?
>> Okay.
[LAUGH]
>> Yep, yep, it is not like CSS.
It is zero indexed in this case,
so that will be the fourth one.
And you can see,
it now says Howdy World on there as well.